Voice over IP brings some
twists into the game for
the codecs that have been developed for
circuit switched technologies.
So we will look at some of them now.
So if you have seen this
protocol stack before.
The circuit switched stack is
on the left hand side, and
the packet switched protocol
stack is on the right hand side.
These are four calls.
The takeaway is,
if you look at the right hand side,
there are a lot of overheads,
RTP, UDP, IP,
in the transport, that are not
there in the circuit switched.
So, this is a shared channel, we also have
a lot more latency and
definitely jitter in the packet arrival.
So, the decoder in VoIP
has to do a lot more than
just the codec payload and render as it
was if it could in this circuit switch.
It has to maintain a buffer to smooth
out the jitter the arrival and
if some packets are too late,
just drop them on the floor and proceed.
And try to do some
packet loss concealment,
just like you would do for lost packets.
And you can do this by looking at
information in the neighboring packets,
and interpolating some of the LPC and gain
and pitch parameters, so on and so forth.
So the standards body that specifies how
you actually go about implementing
Voice over IP is IETF.
The request for
comments RFC specify the RTP protocol,
RFC 3550 and the RFC 3550 one and
other RFC's.
They specify how you use
the payload from a circuit
switched codec inside an RTP
payload scheme for voice calls.
So obviously,
3551 already has payload definitions for
G.711 and other ITU codecs that
you would see in Bitstreamer and
other VoIP implementations.
The AMR payload is 51, 4867 and
EVRC is We have it on
here this thing here.
EVRC would be 5188.
So leaving this topic I want to bring yet
another really important
concept to your notice.
The RFC 4995 and
5225 they define a protocol called ROHC.
RObust Header Compression.
So we talked about the payload
increase in the IP protocol, right.
So with the latest set of
codecs you can essentially do 4
to 12 bits per sample
in the pillar traffic.
And this gives you about 500
to 1500 bytes per second.
If we transmit the data at 20 frames
per second, which is very nominal,
you will have about 50 frames per second.
So for
each frame we have about 10 to 30 bytes
of payload in which in each wired packet.
In IPv4 the overhead is
40 bytes per packet.
That includes the 20 bytes for
IP header, eight bytes for
the UDP header, and
12 bytes for the RTP header.
So for a 20 byte payload it doesn't make
sense to use 40 bytes for
the header itself.
[COUGH] And when you go to IP V6 the
packet header size is actually 60 bytes,
so If you have a really
efficient CODEC running it,
10 to 20 bytes per packet, per frame, for
the payload, you're spending 60 bytes for
the overhead.
So the standards ideas
came that ROHC protocol,
it compresses the headers in RTP or
any real time traffic.
And it can actually get it down to one
to three bytes for most VoIP codecs,
it depends on the packet losses,
and condition, and round trip time.
Many things, but
one to three is a good approximation.
This is very robust to IC channels even
when you have packet losses the coder and
decoder are able to synchronize
themselves very, very fast.
On the networks, on the links that
have very long round trip delays And
an even out of sequence
arrivals from the lower layers.
The rock is able to
recover from all of that.
So it takes advantage of the header
information in two different classes.
There is one class that
is completely static.
And then the other one,
like the time stamp, and your RTP
rendering the hardware information for
entering the codec to the speaker.
That changes from packet to packer.
It keeps the science a smaller code.
For the timestamp.
The thing is a rock is applicable
only at the link level and so
the benefits of the ip, so
that you have the sender's information,
the receiver's information,
all embedded inside the packet For
a true packet switched
operation is still possible.
Then you have a link, in the olden
days it used to be the dial-up,
now it's the cellular link.
So on a link base you can use Rock for
header completion.
So that about brings me to
the closure of this module.
There a lots of details
that I really glossed over.
I will try to put together a list
of references for you to look at.
But the first one here,
the G.191 is a very useful tool.
I remember having to
buy it a few years ago
I just notice that it can
be downloaded for free.
It has many speech tools that
I have used many, many times.
And also reference implementations for
some of the G Dart seven series that
didn't even exist when I paid for it.
So, thank you.